{
  "title": "WWCDD?",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2003-02-24T07:39:35-08:00",
  "archive": [
    "2003/02/24"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}
<p><a href="http://michaelw.net">Michael Winser</a> suggested that I should think about taking the same approach that citydesk uses.  They do two things differently than Radio:
<ul>
<li>They use a CRC instead of a byte for byte comparison.  Apparently they use this instead of filetimes altogether.  I could compute the CRC (or do the comparison with the file on disk too, I guess) by wrapping the stream that the transform is writing to and doing the CRC/comparison on the fly
<li>They also post a list of files and CRCs as an xml file on the server. This makes it easier to synchronize files across machines
</ul>

<p>I definitely want to enable the cross machine case, and file times do seem a little fragile to me.  This is something I'll have to think about a little more.
<p>Two way synchronization is really hard though?  What happens if the same file changes on both the client and the server?  How do you handle deleting a file?  (Do you care about deleting a file?)
<p>Another problem comes up when you have multi-party authoring and syncing and that is with respect to item numbers.  Right now I have an item number count that I store in a config file and update every time I create a new entry (it is currently at 49).  <a href="http://simplegeek.com">ChrisAn</a> solves this problem with a good old fashion GUID (I have a bunch cheap if you need them ;)  I might be able to switch over without killing my RSS feed and perma links if I just treat the item ID as a string.
{{< /verbatim >}}
