{
  "title": "More FTP stuff",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2003-03-03T10:04:00-08:00",
  "archive": [
    "2003/03/03"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}
<p><a href="http://www.simplegeek.com/permalink.aspx/55cdfe57-82bf-47aa-9beb-5dc06d966724">Bitch</a>, <a href="http://www.simplegeek.com/permalink.aspx/063d639b-10c7-4826-9f5f-0b6c026a9268">bitch</a>, bitch.  Okay, Chris, what <i>do</i> you want in the FTP upstreamer?  I don't think that Radio's upstreamer deletes either.  Here is what I can do easily:
<ul>
<li>CD to a directory.  Throw if the dir isn't there.
<li>[done] Ensure a directory.  Try my best to make sure that a directory (and the path up to it) exists.
<li>Delete a directory.  The server will probably return an error if there are files in it.  I will throw.
<li>Get the current directory.
<li>Move up a direcotry.
<li>[done] Upload a file into the current directory.
<li>Download a file in the current directory and return a stream.  It would be easiest to buffer the entire file in memory.
<li>Delete a file in the current directory.
<li>[done] Return a text string with the current directory listing.
<li>Call SYST and return whatever the system gives us.  This might help detect the type of system on the other end.
</ul>
<p>The only thing that isn't easy and that will probably take quite a while to get right is parsing the output of the directory listing.  I don't have a bunch of servers to test this against to make sure it will work.
<p>As for the upstreamer itself, I'd rather have it not try and sync the stuff on the server (and hence delete stuff) because I'd be afraid of loosing data.  For instance, I upstream into the root of my site and I have all sorts of subdirs off of that.  I'm setting up a weblog for Rachel on eightypercent.net and her root will be a subdir.  I don't want to clobber her stuff whenever I upload my site.
{{< /verbatim >}}
