{
  "title": "FTPUpstreamer released",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2003-04-27T13:56:32-07:00",
  "archive": [
    "2003/04/27"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}

    <p>
        Version 0.9.0 of my upstreamer is released. 
    </p>
    <p>
        Download the MSI installer <a href="http://static.eightypercent.net/stuff/FTPUpstreamer/FTPUpstreamer-0.9.0.msi">here</a>.
        The source is available <a href="http://static.eightypercent.net/stuff/FTPUpstreamer/FTPUpstreamer-0.9.0.zip">here</a>.
        The license for both is a zlib type license. You can read it <a href="http://static.eightypercent.net/stuff/FTPUpstreamer/License.txt">here</a>. 
    </p>
    <p>
        Notes about the release: 
    </p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            FTPUpstreamer is a utility to upload a local directory to a remote directory on an
            FTP server. It keeps track of the files that have been uploaded already and the last
            changed time on those files. 
        </li>
        <li>
            This is a beta release. Don't expect too much. I've only really tested this against
            one server (W2k3, I think). I've only tested the client on XP Pro. 
        </li>
        <li>
            There is no support for listing or deleting files on the server. If you want to do
            more sophisticated stuff you might want to check out a more fully featured FTP program.
            I've used <a href="http://www.smartftp.com/">SmartFTP</a> and it has worked well for
            me. 
        </li>
        <li>
            There is no support for automatic uploading yet. You have to hit the button. At some
            point I'll have it automatically scan for changes. I'll also make it minimize to a
            tray icon. I figured getting something out early is best. 
        </li>
        <li>
            The program requires the .Net framework v1.0. You can get this from Windows Update. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <b>Your FTP password is stored in plain text.</b> The config file is something like
            "c:\Documents and Settings\Joe\Local Settings\Application Data\FTPUploadConfig.xml".
            I don't think the uninstaller removes this. There are some other data files in the
            same directory that will also not be removed. Buyer beware. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        If you have any problems go ahead and write me email at FTPUpstreamer at BedaFamily.com.
        If I'm not super responsive (I have a day job) you can always update the source yourself.
        If you send me deltas I'll try to integrate them. At some point I may put the source
        under some sort of project management like GotDotNet workspaces or Sourceforge. 
    </p>

{{< /verbatim >}}
