{
  "title": "Whole site syndication",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2003-05-29T15:41:45-07:00",
  "archive": [
    "2003/05/29"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}

    <p>
        <a href="http://www.neelbubba.com/">Bubba</a> has some <a href="http://www.neelbubba.com/Thesis/Archive/2003_05_01_index.php#95045729">interesting
        ideas</a> around subscribing to an entire site instead of just "news."&#160; He is
        doing his Master's thesis on blogging so he has been spending a lot of time thinking
        about htis stuff. 
    </p>
    <p>
        RSS is a part of the puzzle but only captures a part of what is on a site.&#160; What
        would you need to move in to the post browser era? 
    </p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            A "site.xml" file to describe the type of content available at the site. 
        </li>
        <li>
            This could point to a set of blogs available on that site.&#160; Bubba (and a lot
            of others) expose more than one blog, or view of their blog.&#160; Perhaps this is
            just a pointer to an RSS file. 
        </li>
        <li>
            Included in each RSS file a pointer to the archive for that is important too.&#160;
            Winer has some stuff on that a while ago that could easily be integrated here. 
        </li>
        <li>
            A reference from the "site.xml" file to other resources available on that site.&#160;
            This could include a list of "stories" and photo galleries.&#160; Perhaps specific
            pages like a disclaimer/license page, a contacts page, etc. 
        </li>
        <li>
            We could use XHTML for all unstructured content that isn't covered otherwise. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        This is an incremental&#160;start on the semantic web.&#160; If we start with XHTML
        and start pulling stuff out on a piece by piece basis we can start to reduce the amount
        of unstructured content. 
    </p>
    <p>
        Any other ideas?&#160; Send me mail or post them to <em>your</em> blog.&#160; 
    </p>

{{< /verbatim >}}
