{
  "title": "Moving offices",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2004-10-27T08:20:58-07:00",
  "archive": [
    "2004/10/27"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}

    <p>
        <a href="http://glinden.blogspot.com/2004/10/googles-kirkland-office.html">It's true</a> --
        Google is opening a development office in Kirkland.&#160; In fact, we are moving tonight
        into our new offices.&#160; So far there has been a small group of us working in some
        temporary offices.&#160; It is going to be nice to move into a more permanent space
        where we can actually talk about work in the hallways! 
    </p>
    <p>
        Other nice things about moving: 
    </p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            Someone else is going to get and stock the drink fridge.&#160; We've been doing it
            so far by assigning people to make Costco runs. 
        </li>
        <li>
            We'll have an espresso machine so we can all practice our barista skills. 
        </li>
        <li>
            Conference rooms we can use any time we want. 
        </li>
        <li>
            We can hang our own art on the walls. 
        </li>
        <li>
            Faster connection to the internet and to Mountain View. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <s>Google colored bean bags everywhere.</s> Apparently the company that makes the
            google beanbags isn't making them any more. I didn't ask as I assume this is a long
            and complicated story.&#160; Don't worry -- we'll have foosball instead. 
        </li>
        <li>
            Lots and lots of whiteboards. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Stay tuned for more details!&#160; We are planning an open house&#160;party so that
        Seattle knows we are here.&#160; I don't think we can <a href="http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2004/10/26.html#a8523">invite
        thousands of people</a> like Scoble is suggesting -- they just wouldn't fit.&#160;
        Unfortunately I won't be around for the party because I'm going to be out of town
        on a photography trip.&#160; I'm really&#160;disappointed&#160;I'm going to miss it. 
    </p>

{{< /verbatim >}}
