{
  "title": "Baby: A Programmers View",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2005-07-24T18:42:36-07:00",
  "archive": [
    "2005/07/25"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}

    <p>
        I'm an engineer at heart and I like to understand how things work.&#160; Our new baby, <a href="http://www.eightypercent.net/Archive/2005/06/25.html#a244">Anne</a>,
        is no exception.&#160; Let's take a programmers approach to understanding this mysterious
        black box. 
    </p>
    <p>
        Inputs (the 5 senses): 
    </p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            <strong>Sight </strong>Anne certainly likes to look around.&#160; My understanding
            is that babies generally see only high contrast at a pretty short distance (1 foot?)&#160;
            She certainly likes looking at faces close up. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Sound </strong>Whitenoise is supposed to be soothing.&#160; She also likes
            U2 and (heaven help me) Cher.&#160; Loud.&#160; I think she likes my singing too.&#160;
            I'm not sure why. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Taste </strong>She eats a lot.&#160; I'm not sure how much variation in taste
            she actually gets.&#160; There are theories that the mother's diet can affect the
            milk, but I haven't personally verified that. <em>Ewwww.</em> 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Touch </strong>Babies need to be held and touched.&#160; They also need to
            be warm.&#160; One input is swaddling&#160;-- wrapping her tightly so that she can't
            move her arms or legs. Rocking and dancing with her count here too. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Smell </strong>Smell is supposed to be one of the most powerful senses.&#160;
            I've yet to see her react to any smells specifically, but I'm sure she is paying attention. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Outputs: 
    </p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            <strong>Biological Outputs</strong> Doctors are funny creatures.&#160;&#160; They
            are really concerned about all forms of matter escaping from our bodies: liquid, solid
            or gas.&#160; Parents also pay close attention to this.&#160; The amount, type and
            origin seem to be important clues to understanding the baby. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Cries </strong>She has many and varied cries.&#160; Some of them are short
            yelps to draw attention while others are reports of murder nearby.&#160; Then there
            is the scary quivering lower lip.&#160; This is supposedly normal and a byproduct
            of her immature nervous system.&#160; It just kills me to see her do it though. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Posture </strong>The way she holds her body is an important clue.&#160; If
            she is curled up like a bug or stretched out and rigid means something. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Eyes and Face </strong>Her eyes and face are very expressive.&#160; Almost
            too expressive.&#160; She goes through a facial expression every 5 seconds or so. 
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong>Sleep</strong> You'd think that it would be easy to tell if she is asleep
            or not.&#160; It really isn't though.&#160; She can be sleeping with her eyes closed
            or just pretending to sleep so that the minute you put her down she perks right up
            again. 
        </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        There you have it&#160;-- 5 inputs and 5 outputs.&#160; Sounds like a pretty simple
        system to me.&#160; The problem is that she is indeed a very complex state machine.&#160;
        She is so complex that there is no way to map the effect of the inputs (feeding her,
        for example) to the outputs (her current crying state).&#160; One would think that
        it would be easy to empirically derive causal relationships between certain inputs
        and certain outputs.&#160; Nope. She has more states than a Rubik's cube (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubik's_Cube">43,252,003,274,489,856,000</a>).
        The baby is indeed a very complex creature that does not yield her secrets to such
        a naïve logical approach. 
    </p>
    <p>
        The amazing part is that biology takes over.&#160; My own brain is more complex than
        it can understand.&#160; It has adapted to the baby and somehow we're able make it
        work.&#160; Except when we can't&#160;-- like last night when all of us were up every
        90 minutes.<br />
    </p>

{{< /verbatim >}}
