{
  "title": "On Jabber Federation",
  "section": "post",
  "date": "2005-08-31T08:57:59-07:00",
  "archive": [
    "2005/08/31"
  ]
}
{{< verbatim >}}

    <p>
        There have been a lot of questions around Google's approach to federation -- both&#160;in
        the comments on this blog and in other forums (the jdev list, slashdot, etc).&#160;
        I apologize for the delay in responding to these questions head on. 
    </p>
    <p>
        We've updated our FAQ to clarify some changes.&#160; To save everyone having to look
        it up in the Google cache, here is the before: 
    </p>
    <blockquote><font size="-1">We look forward to federating with any service provider
    who shares our belief in enabling user choice and open communications. We do believe,
    however, that it is important to balance openness with ensuring that we maintain a
    safe and reliable service that protects user privacy and blocks spam and other abuses.
    We are using the federation opportunity with EarthLink and Sipphone to develop a set
    of guidelines by which all members of the federated network can work together to ensure
    that we protect our users while maximizing the reach of the network. [...]</font></blockquote> 
    <p>
        Here is the new text (changes in red): 
    </p>
    <blockquote><font size="-1"><strong style="COLOR: red">We plan to support open server-to-server
    federation.</strong> We do believe, however, that it is important to <strong style="COLOR: red">have
    the safeguards in place</strong> to ensure that we maintain a safe and reliable service
    that protects user privacy and blocks spam and other abuses. We are using the federation
    opportunity with EarthLink, Sipphone <strong style="COLOR: red">and other partners</strong> to
    develop a set of <strong style="COLOR: red">best practices</strong> by which all members
    of the federated network can work together to ensure that we protect our users while
    maximizing the reach of the network. [...]</font></blockquote> 
    <p>
        On top of that, one of my fellow Google Talk developers, Gary Burd,&#160;has introduced
        himself to the Jabber developer mailing list.&#160; You can read his first post <a href="http://mail.jabber.org/pipermail/jdev/2005-August/021792.html">here</a>. 
    </p>
    <p>
        I, personally, look forward to a long and fruitful partnership between Google and
        the Jabber community. 
    </p>

{{< /verbatim >}}
